---
layout: post
title:      "How I Got Here"
date:       2020-12-02 19:06:05 +0000
permalink:  how_i_got_here
---


I got exposed to Data Science later in my career. It was not until I was five years out of college and working in Financial Services that I realized there is an entire field out there that combines the subjects I’ve always naturally loved. Sometimes, I wonder whether I would have made my way to the field earlier had I had been exposed to computer science at a younger age. While I was fortunate to attend a fantastic university, my economics and political science courses kept me all too busy to wander into the halls of the engineering school. I didn’t learn how to code in college, but I did get a well-rounded liberal arts education that led me to work in Investment Banking where I developed a strong analytical backing. The joy of harnessing large amounts of financial data to communicate key insight pointed me to Data Science going forward. Better late than never, I was in it for the long haul. 

My pivot into Data Science coincided with me changing industries, moving states and becoming a mom within a year. Yet, I was so drawn by the field, that after completing an online certificate from Stanford, I decided to continue my studies part-time at the Flatiron School. If that didn’t put my passion for Data Science to the test, I don’t know what would. As I continue to learn, I still get this insatiable feeling – to play around with more Python, research examples of its applications, and hear podcasts discussing its social implications. I could see the incredible potential artificial intelligence has on answering so many of humanities questions, and how deep learning specifically, could revolutionize the way we understand how we live within our universe. I look back and marvel at all of the countless use cases of Data Science in the areas I have studied. For financial services, in algorithmic trading, fraud detection, insurance and risk management. For economics, in analyzing consumer products or global trade data. And of course, for politics, in the widespread use of data to mobilize voters, or the distribution of fake news. I could also see how the application of machine learning could quickly be misused. Recognition of its complexity and the potential for misapplication motivates me to put in the time and learn it well. 

It is very, very early in my inter-disciplinary Data Science journey. Some parts of the process come naturally to me, namely statistics, asking questions that are valuable from a business perspective, and producing data visualizations that communicate insight. Other parts, like learning to program simply take more patience and practice. The journey is long; some days are extremely rewarding, but many are ridden with confusion, and days feel like just a small drop in the ocean. The only constant in it all is the spark that drives me - I know the outcome is far, yet somehow it feels so close; I can visualize it as though it’s just within reach. 

